Some people come to me and ask, what's the secret to the church's prosperity? I say, if you're a junior, I don't like it. They say, what kind of question is that? There's a secret to the church's prosperity? The church that uses the Lord's cross as a self-sacrifice is itself prosperous. So do you really want the church to be prosperous? If you're a junior, I'll tell you this. If you don't interfere, the church will be prosperous. If you or a pastor like me don't interfere with the church's prosperity, the church will be prosperous. I don't like to say this to my juniors. This is actually a form for juniors, but it's what I say. If Pastor Lee Chan-soo used his strength to say that the church was prosperous, that's an increase in numbers, not prosperity. So what you have to learn through this sermon is that the one who becomes the subject of the church is Jesus Christ. No other person should covet that position. When everyone goes back to their place and acknowledges the Lord's sovereignty, I believe that the church's prosperity will be restored. Then, what's the second thing I've discovered? One of the great lessons I've learned from the Sermon on the Cross is that reading can also encourage you. If you look at what the Lord said to the seven churches in Asia, there is praise and encouragement, but there is also the Lord's stubbornness, so much so that it makes you cringe. Take a look at the 4th verse of the Sermon on the Cross. He said, But do you think I will despise you? For I have loved you for the first time. These days, people say things like that. Isn't that just a cringeworthy thing to say? Take a look at what the Lord said to the four churches. Take a look at the 3rd and 1st verses. For I know my ways, and I have the name that I have lived, but I have died. That's a cringeworthy thing to say. What did I tell you last week? Do you remember what I told you last week? I told you that the Sermon on the Cross was written to encourage and give hope to those who live to the end. But what does it mean to have a book like this in the Sermon on the Cross to encourage people? The real encouragement is to point out the wrongdoings and to correct them. It's not encouraging to just close your eyes, cover your face, and pat your back. In this context, I think the fact that there are so many sermons on the cross in Bundang, or in Korean churches, which are so soft and encouraging, is a defect. Last week, the pastors who had retired gathered to make a church. After they retired, they found it hard to go to the church they used to go to. I think that's why. They asked me to preach at the Sermon on the Cross. When I got there, there were so many elderly people sitting there. They were all white-haired, and they were all sitting there. I felt so humiliated. But then, a woman came to give me a drink. She was also a retired woman. She looked at me and said, You don't look like a bad person. You look good. That's what she said. So I looked at her, and she said, When I saw you on TV, you looked very cold and fierce. But when I saw you in person, you weren't like that. You were throwing stones at me. And when I look at you, I get that kind of criticism. When I see you on TV, you look scary and fierce. But when I see you in person, I hear from time to time that you are very gentle. There's no reason for me to be fierce in private. But as a servant of God, as a servant of God, you have to sometimes encourage others who are having a hard time, but at the same time, you have to take on the role of a bad person and you can't avoid a bad sermon. In this context, I don't want to be a servant of God who only talks about encouraging others. I want to be a servant of God who only talks about encouraging others. Of course, in order to preach such a bad sermon, I have to try harder to live a life where I don't feel ashamed in front of God. But what I want to tell you is that even a bad sermon can be an encouragement. So not only do we all acknowledge the sovereignty of the Lord, but when He encourages us, we have to be humble and accept His words. Let's become such a humble church and go to work in the name of the Lord.
